# It's not you. It's not me. It's us

I've been online for far longer than I care to admit. I think we have a problem. 

The following is more or less a best-effort structured brain-dump. My goal here is not to convince, my goal is to share some feelings I have. I have no prescriptions that can be acted on immediately and I'm not selling you anything.

Let's talk about online spaces. 

if you've been online long enough, you know exactly what I'm about to say. There's something deeply broken about what we've come to accept as the norm.

-insert whatever current event here- 

No, this is not a placeholder. This is an intentional choice that I hope you can relate to. 

I want to start with some questions. 

What was the main goal of the internet?

My answer is information sharing. The implementation of how we share this information (or whether that information is accurate) is not something I want to get into right now.

What I want to get into is the secondary layer that came out of that goal. 

When you have information to share about a specific topic, you have a community. 

This is my issue. This is what I want to talk about.

Online communities are, for the most part, broken.

I want to dig deeper here.

I'm not talking about strongholds that still to this day have their own spaces, whether it be self-hosted forums, private groups or -insert whatever you want here-

I'm talking about the mirage that is rented space that you can control

"rented space? What does that even mean in this context?"

That's a fair question. And the answer is that we've somehow become ok with "sharing our information" not on the web... but on someone else's platform. 

You can't paint the walls without talking to the landlord. You can't knock down a non-load-bearing wall to make a room bigger. The landlord can change. You can be evicted at any time.

This to me is a problem. 

I'm not asking everyone reading this to go and be a sys admin and "self-host all the thingz." 

I'm just wondering if we can find the middle ground.

I've thought about this for a very long time, mostly because I am obsessed with the idea of autonomous online communities. 

The way I see it, the early days of the internet had some very, very, very strong entry requirements... and then we managed to solve that for individuals. Around the late 90s and early 2000s and individual could create their own space on the internet with much less friction.

At the same time, we saw some amazing progress for "community spaces"... but progress in that area faltered and we gave up control to a large degree.

Why? That's really what I want to talk about and the main reason I sat down to write this.

I genuinely believe that we gave up on online communities because we accepted the wrong premise. 

We accepted the "everyone can shout" model. That's a deeply flawed model. 

Let me try again because I read the last part and it missed the main idea. 

we accepted "unlimited seats" as a normal thing. And when too many people showed up. We decided that this is too hard to manage. So we were ok when -some horrible company- promised to fix that problem.

But the problem was never "how do we manage that many people." The problem was always "there's too many people here" 

Am I advocating for silos? maybe but hear me out.

What I'm advocating for is something in the middle. 

A community where you and your people do get access to what's going on in the world. You get a feed. You get the latest "news" about whatever you care about in your community. And that can be sourced from anywhere, it can even be sourced from other communities like yours.

BUT, the discussion and all the conversation always happens in your community, between your people, in your silo. 

Let me try an analogy. You turn on the news in your living room and see something. You discuss it with the people whose opinion you actually care about. Every house does the same. You don't have to hear what your neighbor has to say about it. Only the people you want to listen to.

and... if your neighbor decides to have their own channel, you can watch that too as a source and discuss it with the people in your living room without your neighbor being a part of the conversation

and... if you want to, you can also let your neighbors watch your channel. 

See how that's a very different model from "go to your neighbors living room" or "have them come to yours"

We've ceded control to mega corps for online communities because we mistakenly believed everyone needs to be in the same living room. 

I don't know about you, but this "small living room" model sounds a lot more interesting and manageable to me. 

I wonder how we can get there.

 

