# High-trust Human-scale communities

Hello. I have a problem. 

Nobody in real life would think it's ok to have a conversation in a stadium where everyone shouts... yet, we're totally fine with that online.

It's insane.

I want to try to break it down a little bit. 

The way we present the shouting online makes it more presentable to some degree. One post after the other. One reply after the other. One article after the other. It's still shouting, but we presented it "better"

An endless stream of things you don't care about, from people you don't care about all packaged in one of the worst design patterns we've ever come up with... infinite scroll.

Don't get me wrong. I have nothing against infinite scroll. I find the tech amazing, I even spent almost a year and a half of my life on a team refactoring and fine tuning infinite scroll

That's not what I want to talk about though, I want to go back to the shouting, but here's why I brought up infinite scroll

It's the idea behind infinite scroll that scares me.

We've made tech make "skipping" and "not interested" easy because... well... there's a lot of garbage.

We didn't stop and say "that's really bad content" 

No... we just decided to make it easy for you to "skip" things you don't get a reaction from

So... infinite scroll. Finger flicks. "page" after page. Mindless

Where does all of this come from?

First, I need to draw some lines. 

When I say infinite scroll, don't confuse that with a perceived improvement in UX

I'm talking about using infinite scroll as a tool for "discovery"

Can you imagine reddit with pagination? 

I don't know about you, but I would kind of stop after 2-3 "pages" 

but we don't do the same with infinite scroll, and that's intentional.

One thing we tend to forget is a lot of the "tech" on the internet is pioneered by people that work on companies that make more money when they count more eyeballs on their quarterly statements. 

growth at all costs. growth is everything. growth. growth.

Still. I want to go back a little bit. 

Why do we have so much content that infinite scroll made sense? 

This is my main point. Too many people.

Now I get to go back to one of the first sentences in this post and I think it might make more sense.

> Nobody in real life would think it's ok to have a conversation in a stadium where everyone shouts... yet, we're totally fine with that online.

I hope this second reading gets you closer to my understanding of the problem we have.

The growth-at-all-costs mentality left us with this... impossible problem. How the fuck do you manage that many people? They all have the same feelings you have. They all have their own ways of looking at life. They, sometimes, have horrible opinions. 

I'm talking about people here, not bots. I'll get back to bots later.

So we have unimaginable numbers of people, all shouting at the same time, all feeling like they should be heard. Now we have a stadium.  

This is not a conversation. 

I want to focus on that part. The "podcast bro" culture we have today is a symptom. An awful symptom. 

We've somehow become okay with unrefined, unchallenged ideas to be broadcast on all the speakers in the stadium, and then we mistook the shouting and reactions for conversations. 

We can do better. We should do better.

Let me pull you back a little bit because I know I'm rambling. 

too many people, too much content, noise. 

We don't do this in real life. It's time to put arbitrary limits on our digital communication that match our physical limits. 

This is what I want to get across. This is what I want to see.

What if you can have your own facebook?

Wouldn't that be amazing? 

What if we introduce a completely arbitrary - but logical and research based - limit on how many people can be there?

A place where you can... just... talk? With real people, about things you care about... complete strangers at first, but... it's all just so much more productive than shouting at the stadium. 

It's much more productive than endless content you flick your fingers through.

It's much more productive than engaging with internet trolls and people that actually get paid to trigger you

(if you're not aware, most of the rage inducing posts you might come across on -some website- are actually monetized based on engagement)

I don't know. I want a community without any of this crap. I know I'm not alone. 

I want one place where I can have a forum, blog, chat in one place. I want that place to have a limited number of people. 

Right now I'm still reading about something called Dunbar's number.

I don't know the answers yet. But I know what we have is not the best we can do.

