# The five prongs of a community

I am not a community manager. I am a software developer. 

But... I've been part of online communities for longer than I care to admit. So. I've seen some patterns. 

I'm not here preach about one way of doing things or the other. I'm here to share what I feel is a path of "less resistance" where the tech enables more productive human collaboration. I am all about human collaboration. I think we are capable of amazing things in the right environment. I want to create that environment.  

If you've been following along, I am on a mission to create a new community software. 

In this post, I'll share some of conclusions I came to about the different ways we communicate online.

I titled this as "The five prongs of a community" so let me list those first.

- social feed
- chat 
- forum
- blog
- marketplace

You might look at that list and say... "that's 5 different products" and you'd be right.

But... what if we dare to dream? 

I want to have all of those in one place. And no... I'm not talking about building a chat software and then cobbling up "forum" as an addition later. I'm talking about all five being first-class citizens of a community platform that follows the way we communicate and facilitates it instead of asking the users to change their behavior. 

So... let me run you through a practical example or two.

John Doe posts on the social feed about some his phone curving after she forgot it in her back pocket

Jane Doe replies "That happened to me too!"

A conversation starts. 

More people start posting on the social feed with the hashtag #phoneBend

It becomes a thing.

A new chat channel is created for people to talk about it.

More and more users start reporting their phones are flimsy. 

Two weeks pass. More people pile on. 

John Doe's initial social post has gotten a ton of reactions. It shows a "promote to forum" button. 

An official forum thread is now a thing where people talk about #bendGate

The discussions are lively. 

Users now follow the #bendGate hashtag.

They can opt-in for notifications for all content related to #bendGate

A storm brews. 

Engagement. Organic. Natural. All opt-in. Human.

More and more stories are shared on the social feed about #bendGate. 

News articles. Discussions. Chats. 

It's a lively conversations. It's a community. 

And then... and official response. BadCompany™ admits their design was fault. 

You make an official "Blog post" on your community covering the entire debacle. 

Organically. Some tech-savvy members of your community offer "guided walkthroughs to backup your #bendGate phone even if the screen is broken"

This is what I call a "topic" 

#bendGate is a topic. It's a hashtag but it's a topic. 

I can follow #bendGate

I can go to /t/bendgate and see all the forum threads, the marketplace listings, the chats, the blog posts, the social feed posts... all of it... in one place. And it all happened organically. 

This is exciting. This is coherent. This makes sense. This is what I want to build. 

The example I used above is a bit of a stretch but it does get the point across. 

- social feed
- chat 
- forum
- blog
- marketplace

as the prongs of a community 

with hashtags (topics) as low-friction organic way users can "glue" the different modes of conversations together. 

I don't know about you but... this idea excites me.

More to follow on this as I think it through a bit more.
